Can I go back to one thing?
This is fascinating.
You say that you really developed your expertise as a result of this collector who was an anonymous collector who bought this collection on block.
You met this collector for the first time after he or she or whoever had bought this collection.
The collection.
The collector clearly was very impressed.
The collection was beautiful.
And I would assume approach to it that I want more.
Yes.
And so thus began.
Yeah.
Except, I mean, that meant that a lot of these bindings started to come through my hands that I got to handle into catalogs that I wouldn't have otherwise.
I mean, in vast numbers, you know, hundreds and hundreds of books.
Oh, sorry.
In other words, the word, get out there.
I was out looking all the time.
I think you were out looking.
And I represented the collector's office.
You went to all these offices.
I went to all these offices.
But the background was already there.
I mean, you know, the School of Paris background was already there.
I mean, I could look at a Durant.
from his Froese period and know that the book was going to be worth more money than a draft that was done in the later part of his life, because his paintings are worth more money.
I mean, I'm very tied into the art world, and I almost come to this with the art dealer's mentality rather than the book dealer's mentality.
That's why I've asked a few questions in a very gentle way about, again, is it a book or is it an artwork?
Is the book one for Sylvester?
When you get to a print dealer and he's cut up like this is jazz, this book here, this book is sold as individual play all over the place.
And that's why there's very few of the whole book left.
The same thing that blew off.
The same thing with Picasso.
Well, Brazilla did a reprint.
And that thing was a big... That's up to $250,000.
This was an incredible one.
The first time I sold that book, I sold it for 47... You sold the Matisse?
Yeah.
The first time I sold the Matisse Jazz was in 85, and I sold it for $47,000.
Wow.
The next time?
$52,000.
You did this in New York.
Do you have these kind of customers up here in Boston?
No, they're not in Boston, no.
I sell from Boston, but I don't sell it to people from Boston.
Your clientele generally would be?
I have a handful of clients that are international, in Europe as well as in the United States.
The most satisfying thing about the last book there was that for eight years, Priscilla's been working,
I know the feeling in a very different kind of a way.
I succeeded at the Worcester Telegraph's book editor, the guy who was the founder and first president of the National Book Critics Circle.
And they give the award every year, the Ivan Sandroff Award.
And I will never forget, after five or six years, we had a party for it.
Thank you for the material.
This time, two inscribed copies.
And I'm working my way backwards.
You mentioned Houdini, so I just want to show you the link between Doyle and Houdini.
Here's a great book.
This is all about Doyle's spiritualist phase, which I mentioned to him.
I saw the little letters.
See, everything hangs together.
You saw the little photographs.
He and Houdini were very close, until... Houdini was a pretty good collector, too, actually.
He was a collector, but then there was a break.
Doyle stayed with the mediums, and he felt that spiritualism was a bona fide religion, if you will.
Houdini said, that is baloney.
I can debunk every medium you will ever bring to me.
But this was during their friendly period.
To my friend.
Houdini from A. Conan Doyle.
Arthur Conan Doyle.
Given to me.
Houdini's book plate.
Oh, wow.
This from the same collection?
Yes, this is.
Given to me by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle on his visit to my home, 278.
on the 13th street new york houdini lady doyle visited mrs houdini the same day and they wrote this thing they knew they look at the condition of the book right yeah but were these books issued with jackets by the way everything is this is with jacket that's one thing if anyone ever tells you that these things weren't issued with jacket there are almost no things that were issued without a jacket
I would say particularly beginning around the 1880s, and there were even earlier jackets, but beginning with the 1880s, and I'll show you some things that are very rare worth, John.
What's the year in this book?
The Wanderings of a Spiritual Cell?
I don't want to give you the exact name.
Just so we know.
Gold story in 1921.
1921.
Now, the book alone, without a jacket.
I'm just going to tell you that my machine wasn't running when we read that letter.
We don't have to read the whole letter again, but you did tell me some quotes about, because I'll get it again at some point, but the quotes about how you got this collection from another collector.
In the case of a collector, I'm just replaying it in my mind, wanting the collection to go to another collector.
That's very important to me.
But always with price entering into it, so that in my world and the way I deal with things, I specifically asked this person, and the person took my advice,
to go to other major sources against whom I was willing to compete and be held up.
Did he ever tell you what they quoted?
No, never did.
But he was satisfied that you were in the ballpark.
Exactly.
And I'm sure in your heart of hearts, you know that you probably got it.
Maybe, well, you don't know.
I paid through the nose for me on this collection.
But he would have done anything to have it.
Of course.
The night before I went to pick this up,
I was lying next to Priscilla, and I couldn't sleep the whole night.
He was so excited about having these books.
That's the way I get it.
How extensive was the collection that you got from this collection?
He had a great collection.
He had a great collection, but you just made it greater.
Here's a good example of something from my collection that I had before.
This is an incredible rarity.
This is the first American edition of the Valley of Fear, but it's also the first edition, because this was first printed in the United States.
The Valley of Fear.
So this is the first edition.
One of the chef's doors.
This is Molly McGraw.
And a very nice copy.
But the jacket is beautiful.
The jacket is so good.
It's a great, superb jacket and an inscription by Doyle.
So this...
I mean, these are things that people would go for.
If you were to find a jacket for that Houdini book, would you put it on there?
Well, you could, but you know, it wouldn't add that much to the book.
The book itself, that Houdini book... Well, the association... You're wrong, you're wrong.
That Houdini book is wonderful, you know, a great book, but the book itself, without the Houdini signature, is worth $100, $125 maybe.
With a jacket, it's probably worth $500.
with the Houdini signatures, what, $15,000, $20,000.
You see, that, you know, there's a whole magnitude of difference.
It's just, it's just, you can't remember.
Where, where was that thing that we just mailed to the, just so I can cue my, we don't have to go through the whole letter again, but my machine was off for about two minutes there.
I was getting too excited.
It's Royal Lynx Hotel.
Chroma.
CMO EMER, National Telephone Number 2-0.
to Green, G-R-E-E-N-H-R-U-G-H, Smith.
We don't have to read the whole thing.
The editor of the Strand Magazine.
But, but, but, go ahead.
My dear Strand, I have the idea, my dear Smith, I have the idea of a real creeper for the Strand.
It would run, I think, to not less than 40,000 words.
It is just the sort of thing which would suit you, full of surprises and breaking naturally into good lengths for serial purposes.
It would be called the Hound of the Basketball's.
That's all I need, really.
Although I love the details about how much you want to get paid.
Now, I have weird things in the collection.
Wouldn't it be nice to have the guy's response?
Yeah.
This is incredible.
This is A Visit to Heaven by Mary Conan Doyle.
This is Doyle's daughter, written when she was eight years old.
Eight years old.
Again, being false-making.
and my box maker.
Here it is.
With the author's love, Mary.
This is Doyle's.
This came out in probably like five copies, and this is an inscribed copy of the five copies, right?
So it's not Sherlock Holmes, and it's not by Arthur Conan Doyle, but it's so rare that it takes on a life of its own almost.
Okay.
This is interesting.
I think we all
This is the first meeting of the Baker Street Irregulars.
Remember we talked in New York about the Baker Street Irregulars?
Rich Paul Clarkson was a member.
Right.
And this is the first meeting.
The menu for the first meeting in 1934.
It doesn't say the restaurant, but it was Tony's Restaurant.
Where I used to go, long before I knew that, that was the meeting place.
Now it's a shrine.
Now it's gone now.
And who's signed?
Everybody.
Christopher Morley.
Oh, look at that.
These are all these guys.
There's William Gillette.
Let's see.
Frederick Dorsteel, one of the great illustrators.
Lawrence P. Dodge, who in later years, I learned, lived in Newburyport, Massachusetts.
Who is this one?
Price.
Alan Price.
Earl Walbridge.
who was a customer of mine when I was at the New York Public Library.
I used to get books for him, run books from the stank.
Peace Soup, Cadigan West.
I'm looking at those menus.
Right.
These all have to do with Sherlock Holmes, right?
The Noble Bachelor, Chateau Reichenbach.
You know, Plover's eggs.
Can you imagine they had Plover's eggs?
That's great.
So, again, not everything is measured in money.
You know, this is not worth so much money.
It's the rarity.
What are you talking about?
But it's the rarity, yeah, the rarity.
And look at the beautiful box that Jack Crave made.
Jack Crave.
Jack Crave fixed the book for me.
Oh, is Jack Crave as your guy?
Jack Crave's been to my house, in a matter of fact.
He's a very nice guy.
He's excellent.
Okay.
Here's another thing.
Doyle had his work pirated extensively.
At the turn of the century, the new copyright law was just coming into effect.
And the Americans were merciless to these British authors, Dickens, Ryder Haggard.
Doyle hated these guys with a passion.
Americans didn't pay royalties.
They paid no royalties.
So here's The Sign of the Four, an old beat-up copy.
It's a pirated edition, which is a reprint.
But this was in Eugene Field's collection, and Eugene Field and Doyle were friends.
This was a copy that Doyle inscribed to Eugene Field,
And then he wrote this and drew this little pirate flag.
And here's this quatrain that he wrote.
This bloody pirate stole my sloop and holds her in his wicked ward.
Lord, send that walking or my poop.
I see him kick along main yard, which means hanging, right, you know.
That's one of the great things.
I mean, these are all just incredible things.
Here's another thing I mentioned to you in the interview.
I'll just give you an example.
Baker Street Fuller.
Right.
These are all letters by Roosevelt.
Remember I told you that Roosevelt was a member?
And this is the printed version of the letters.
And, of course, this book itself is extremely rare.
This is, um...
Copy number one of this book.
Copy number one of these limited things are very scarce.
But in this particular book, it's scarce.
And in here... Are the letters, probably.
Are the letters.
Not all of them.
You can't surprise me.
Exactly.
But some of them.
And they're the most interesting ones.
This one is of great historical significance.
Here's what he says.
Can we read this, dear?
Dear Edgar Smith.
September 21, 44.
Right.
I was delighted to find on my desk your letter and the complimentary bound copy of the Sherlocking Astartes dedicated to Baker Street.
A glance at the foreword and your article entitled The Disappearance of Mr. James Fillmore inspires me with keen anticipation of another trip when that rare moment of relaxation comes, this time in a four-wheeler to Baker Street.
Many thanks for your kindness in presenting this volume to me."
Then, of course, this is interesting, because this is when they were printing this.
This is Eleanor Roosevelt saying, My dear Smith, this is right after Roosevelt's death.
I shall, of course, approve of your printing the letters of which you sent me copies, and I think my husband would have liked to have it done very sincerely yours.
More letters by Eleanor Roosevelt, a letter by Grace Tully, the secretary.
From the same collector?
Well, these I got in different places.
Oh, you've assembled this.
Right, exactly.
This suite of letters.
The suite, exactly.
But all on the same subject, all illustrating their passion with Roosevelt, found in Sherlock Holmes.
It's quite extraordinary.
It really is.
Yeah.
Holmes is a link for people of very, very different... Is it fair to say that you two guys get together because of a shared passion for books?
I mean, I don't want to... No question?
I don't want to... Absolutely.
I don't want to... I'm a personal question, but... No, absolutely.
Priscilla printed her first catalog.
Not that one, actually.
That was our Priscilla's book catalog.
Her first literature catalog.
The very first catalog when she first went into business.
And a mutual friend of ours saw the catalog, showed me the catalog, and there was a book in it that I wanted, and it was being sold too cheaply.
And so I hustled my ass right over, made an appointment, called her up, and of course I got there, the book was sold.
But I took one look at her, and I forgot about the book.
But that doesn't mean anything, because I'm not that fast a mover, as Priscilla has now found out, right?
I didn't call Priscilla for six months, and finally she called me and said, would you like to have some lunch?
I didn't even remember who it was.
And I said, Priscilla?
Yes, I would definitely like to have some lunch.
I'm not going to quit this.
Don't worry about it.
Let me go a little bit further on the Sherlock Holmes.
In addition to collecting what?
Other people might have, okay, these items are unique, but the books aren't unique.
I've heard this record, by the way.
I also have a number of unique items in my collection that there's only one of a kind of, okay?
And they're printed materials.
Many of these are the Library of Congress deposit copies, okay?
And so here's a book that never came out commercially called Western Wanderings by Doyle.
which was deposited for copyright purposes to the Library of Congress.
It was printed, but it was never sold commercially.
It never really sold the issue.
How did this thing manage to escape the Library of Congress?
Well, somebody traded the Library of Congress.
It came out quite legitimately.
Somebody swapped the Library of Congress for stuff that they wanted much more than this.
And subsequently, I bought these from a very legitimate book dealer, a member of the ABAA, and actually very high up in the ABAA.
Here's another one.
This one isn't even bound.
You can see this is what the Library of Congress did to mark their deaccessioning.
And it's just a little story with the Library of Congress call numbers.
And they found their way into my collection.
And then I have one book.
which is the only known book of its kind.
Who picks the fabric for the boxes?
I do.
No, I do that.
Right.
Well, what makes you decide that you want a certain... I don't know.
I suggest to him what kind of book I'd like to have, and then he does the boxes.
These are little parodies.
I love parodies of Holmes.
He's had millions of parodies.
This one is great.
This is the Sleuths, and it contains...
And this is the original Library of Congress deposit card for this.
And I bought this at auction in New York.
And I had to buy the whole set of these to get this one throughout the rest of the set, which had no value.
And this one is incredible.
And here's a pick-lock hole.
Here's another one of Dan's parodies.
This one was written on an exhibition at Harvard.
The Adventures of... Pick-lock Holes.
These are incredibly rare.
But these are even rarer than most copies, because they're all inscribed.
I mean, these are just unheard of.
Look at the condition of the book, too.
That's the author's granddaughter, Martha Peabody.
Could you read it?
It's Martha Peabody from R.C.
Layman, Xmas, 1901.
And I've never heard in all the years of my collection of any other inscribed copies.
That's one of the parodies there.
Except this one.
So there are two inscribed copies in the world.
And I have them both.
Two known.
Two known ones.
Rosamond P. Byron's sister.
Don't ever say they were only two.
Two known, two known.
It's like they're only 10 Tamerlanes.
Only two known.
And then the 12th, right?
This is a birthday present that I got for Danny.
Ralph Sipper turned this up.
Now, I also collect the rarest detective fiction, okay?
He collects Queen's Quorum titles.
Right.
Dan already had this book in his collection, but the copy that he had was not nearly as beautiful as this one.
I bought this book, not this particular one, but I bought my first copy from Lou Feldman, and I paid, I think, $100 from Lou Feldman.
It was from the K collection.
And that was the only copy I saw for years, until Priscilla turned this copy up at Ralph Zipper's, and she bought it for me for a birthday present.
The same thing, these books are all great detective fiction.
This one is incredible.
Look at the jacket on this.
This is the Queen's Quorum title, too, and this one has a nice sign by the author, Thomas Burke.
I mean, is there a better collection than this, in your own humble opinion, of this?
Well, of Sherlock Holmes, in book and in letters, there isn't any.
Okay?
This is a preeminent collection.
Right.
I think that most people, well, most people would agree if they saw it.
Remember, there have probably been two people that have seen this collection.
to see that.
I'm so privileged.
I really... No, don't feel privileged.
I do, because... It's not my thing.
I just haven't... You're interested, so I'm enthusiastic about it, and I'm very happy... Do you have a catalog?
No.
I'm in the process of cataloging.
You should catalog it.
What is it that's about?
That's there someplace.
No, it's on the other one.
Over there?
Yeah.
Is it under the... Yeah.
Now, here are some great books.
I mean,
If you remember at the fair, Mark Hyman, a dealer from California, had a couple of Sherlock Holmes books.
These are the first and second issues of The Sign of the Four.
Now, the thing about this is condition.
Now, Mark's book, which he sold at the fair for $13,500,
was not nearly, didn't even begin to compare with this copy.
This is the finest known copy.
There's no question about it.
Oh, I'll find it for you.
One second.
And I love condition.
And so I've made a real passion of finding these books in great condition.
This is another single.
My God.
This is the White Company, a novel in a three-decker by Doyle.
He's 19th century.
And you say these were all issued with jackets, even if they were plain wrappers.
Well, the three-decker one wasn't.
This one was probably issued in a jacket.
Do you think it had anything pictorial on it, or was it just a plain wrapper?
I don't think this one did.
Some did, but I don't believe that this one did.
And then, you know, I'm sort of working my way towards...
the cornerstones of the collections, which is what we're getting to.
Quite literally, we're on the upper shelf, moving left.
And I skipped a whole lot of stuff in here, a lot of great stuff.
But The Sign of the Floor, that's the first legitimate issue in England.
But there was a previous issue that was published in the United States in a pirate edition, which is impossible to find.
And this one is incredibly rare, especially because of the condition.
It has the complete back strip.
And when you get into this rarefied atmosphere, the backstrip is really important because it's the first thing that goes, believe it or not.
I know that.
So the difference between this copy and a lesser one with no backstrip is like $8,000 difference just for the backstrip.
Published by Collier.
Exactly.
That's the same guy.
That's the same Collier.
It's 1891.
Right.
Exactly.
And then just working our way down, this is the first book edition.
of A Study in Scarlet, which is the first book.
This is the English style, by the way, of box making.
You see, it's a totally different style.
Do you have why they're getting this open?
Do you have any of Doyle's own books?
No, I don't.
And there was a collection of Doyle's own books, but not Sherlock Holmes, and I was not interested in those.
I do have a few, actually.
Yeah, I do.
You're not interested in any of his non-Sherlock Holmes books?
Oh, I am, but I mean, do I have a book?
That was the question.
Oh, I do, yeah, I do.
Do you want to know about the current book plate?
This is an incredible thing.
And that condition for that book, again, it's the finest known product.
Now, is this, what is this, a little mildew there?
Foxing, exactly the way it came, and it's exactly, it's been like that.
Have you treated it?
No, it's been like that since probably 20 years after it was issued.
That's an incredible book.
How long have you had that?
Three or four years.
So you're still working on this.
This is a very active collection.
This is a live, completely live collection.
This is the cornerstone of any collection.
Not necessarily the most valuable book, but very valuable.
But this is the Beaton's Christmas Angle.
And this is the most photographed book.
I mean, Priscilla can show you a T-shirt.
Study in Scarlet.
Which I did.
And this is the first appearance of Holmes in print.
And this is all that's left of this back strip.
The A is missing.
It's intact.
But it's intact.
And this is one of the finest copies now.
Not the finest, but one of the finest.
And you acquired that where?
And I acquired that about two or three years ago.
Wow.
Is this opportunity, I mean, are these just things that you've just found within the last two or three years, or are things that you've just been able to afford in the last two or three years?
Well, affording is part of it, but some of these have not appeared.
And the collection goes way back.
This collection goes back 35 years.
So some of these, for instance, this Valley of Fear that I showed you is a rather old book.
These adventures and memoirs, the first edition of the adventures, first edition of the memoirs, are old.
These are inscribed by Doyle.
These are old.
I haven't shown you a lot of things, but... Well, what do you really covet?
It's not here.
I mean, two or three years.
You said the living collection.
Not covet.
That's the wrong word, but... Let's put it this way.
When you go to a big fair like New York or something in London, what are you looking for?
Then I look for parodies.
The only thing I can find there are parodies.
I love parodies of Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes, Sherlock Holmes.
They're very rare in themselves.
These are all parodies.
This is a parody, The Eleven Tough Buttons.
Here's a whole book of parodies and misadventures, spooks, misfits, the sleuths, Carrington's Cases.
I mean, if you want to see condition for a book, I mean, this is just incredible for this particular book.
Carrington's Cases, yeah.
And it has a homeless parody in it.
And these are very, they're not only collectible, but they're very difficult to find.
And, of course, they're worth a lot of money.
So in terms of the core collection, the A-Adams, you pretty well have the whole shelf on them.
I have the whole shelf.
Yeah.
Right.
I'm still looking for a little thing to fill in here and there.
I'm always upgrading in terms of condition constantly.
But here's a book like this, the first American edition of The Hound of the Baskervilles, the first true American edition, which is a very scarce book.
I'm still looking for that in jacket.
Okay?
Here's a book that I got recently in jacket.
This is the only known copy in a jacket, The Return of Sherlock Holmes.
It's a late book.
It's 1905, and it is the only known copy in a jacket.
From a dealer?
From a dealer, right.
Do you remember what you thought when you saw it?
Yeah, I went wild.
I think it fell.
Did you see it in the catalog, or did you just kind of walk into a shop?
People know what I collect.
Here's a book.
I mean, you want to talk about a book?
The dealer is an odd book.
Take advantage of that kind of obsession, though.
Sometimes, yeah.
But you know what?
You know what?
My position is I always know more than the dealer.
So if I buy a book and I pay for it, if it's in my field, I'm going to get the better of the deal.
Well, you've got the book.
But the dealer never knows what the real value is, and I've got the book.
Exactly.
This is a wonderful story.
This is a book full of Doyle letters.
Now that says My Dear Watson, but it's not My Dear Watson.
These are all Doyle materials and Doyle letters.
Here's Arthur Conan Doyle and his son.
Isn't that wonderful?
That's Doyle at the end of his life.
That's his inscription, life's pilgrimage.
Let me read you this letter.
This comes from Rhoda.
I'm going to see Anthony.
This is dated November
21st, 1940.
Temporary address, and I'll tell you why in a minute, 8 Burlington Gardens.
My dear mister, and I won't repeat the name because I don't want to mention it.
Very many thanks for your cabled order of October 30th for the Doyle album and cobbler's campaigning, and for your confirmatory letter of November 1st just received.
The reason why the Doyle item was not sent immediately is that it suffered slightly in the bombing of Bodley House.
The cloth binding was lightly stained.
Fortunately, the contents came to no harm.
I wanted to keep the volume back for inspection by the insurance law's assessors, but as it seems that they may not be here for weeks yet, I think I had better send you the item at once.
I thought of having it rebound in the same style, but then I thought, you might not find it uninteresting to have in your library one book which bears the honorable scars of the Battle of Britain.
And I thought that letter, to me, this is in value.
It's not that great in value.
But to have that book, it just gives you a wonderful feeling.
You know, I've heard this all of them.
A very dear friend of mine, now deceased, who actually started me as a book collector.
He used to be the music critic.
He had that.
He played it for me one night.
And it is arguably the funniest thing I've ever heard in my life.
Have you seen this one?
This is a gift from Peter Stern.
Peter Stern.
One of the things which are also touching, these are World War I journals, prisoner of war camp journals.
The camp was Ruhleben.
R-U-H-L.
L-E-B-E-N.
And it was a very famous prisoner of war camp where the British were held prisoner.
Infamous.
And it was a huge camp, probably 25,000 people in the camp.
Ran for miles.
And they developed their own colleges and their own universities within the camp.
And they put on all these various shows.
And, of course, there's quite a bit about Holmes.
Here's The Speckled Band by A. Conan Doyle.
So the whole thing is full of material on Sherlock Holmes.
What makes this so interesting is this copy was bound by someone in the camp and sent back home.
This is to who it was sent, and he was the binder, Ernest Long.
And again, this is the only known copy in a camp binding.
They set up a bindery.
And you've marked these pages for it, because those are where the Holmes things are.
Yeah, exactly.
This is the little binder's ticket right here to be sent to.
And here's a copy that is bound in a regular binding.
Same thing.
But it's very scarce to begin with.
Then you have to buy some copies from his own collection.
I'll just show you.
A collection, a library, I guess.
Library.
Let's see if I can find something.
You don't have to show me.
I was just curious if you had any.
Well, they're interesting because they have his notations on it.
Are the slippers anything, or are they just slippers?
Well, he kept his tobacco.
He kept his tobacco when the person slipped.
I figured it had to have reason to be on that show.
This is a wonderful finding, again, done by the critics.
It's a book that I had been looking for for years called How to Do It, a Sherlock Holmes parody.
Again, because I'm such a condition freak, it's a great condition jacket and has a shark on the parody.
It's got a little statue, a little, we can call it a statue, we would call it.
A little leather holmes on the spine.
A little leather holmes on the spine, which I've never seen anything quite like it before.
Some of these are just, these covers, some of these jackets are just magnificent.
They look brand new, don't they, really?
There's an addition in this book.
The Land of the Mist?
Even these later books, for instance, and large books, they all have jackets.
They're all... Then there's, let's see, There's a Lost World.
Spectacular.
So these are just, as I say, this is years of collecting.
These are things you're just not ever going to see.
What do you foresee with this collection?
I mean, that's not a fair... I don't know.
I haven't even started thinking about it.
I think mostly because I don't want to think about it.
No, then there's no reason why you should.
I mean, William Scheide didn't like the question either.
And he's all learning stuff is in Princeton.
And he said it's not a sure thing, by the way.
This is great.
This is a book that I frequent Arnold Silverman's store, Goodspeed's on Milk Street, although I haven't been there in probably two or three years.
But this is a book I found on his Tencent bookshelf.
This is probably worth $700 or $800.
It is, believe it or not.
I know it's a phrase that's overused, but this one is in the original glassine.
And you can see it because it's in mint.
The book is in mint edition.
You got that for a dime?
A dime.
Ten cents on his shelf.
And this is the only edition.
It was only printed.
And how long ago was this?
Just about eight years ago, nine years ago.
What's your feeling when you see something like that?
I can't believe it.
But you can't betray this.
No.
You go in and you pay a dime.
You absolutely pay a dime.
And get out of there.
And giggle the whole one.
These books here.
Did you know it instantly when you saw it?
Instantly.
These are all farther brown.
These are very scarce in jacket.
You know, I collect detective fiction.
These I bought in a rare book dealer's shop.
I paid $15 and $20 a piece for these.
at the Strand Rare Bookshop.
They had just come in as a collection, and I bought them from a guy who is now his own business.
I bought them from Glenn Horowitz.
Who one used to work at the Strand.
Right.
Who had no idea what he had and thought that he knew everything.
One thinks he knows everything.
I'm amazed.
He still thinks he knows everything.
Now, he's made a lot of money, but I guarantee you he doesn't know everything.
No one knows everything.
No, no one knows everything.
I like books that really have a unique touch to them, and that's what I look for.
This is a very famous detective story writer, R. Austin Freeman, but he did, his first book was really a travel book, and he did it in a very scholarly way, and it's touching because this is a copy of the Hien Squad to his mother, and I have several books of that kind of, Agatha Christie's first book,
which is inscribed to her father.
I have Marjorie Allingham's first book inscribed to her father saying, please go out and buy more copies of these books.
I like things that are a little bit off the track.
Those are pretty nice.
These are all... You got those from the Strand, huh, Glenn Hall?
Yeah, these particular ones, right.
But this is a collection of Friedman, which is probably one of the greatest collections.
Most of these are inscribed.
This one, this isn't a jacket.
Believe it or not, that's the jacket.
Let me show you the book so you don't get a kick out of why the jacket is so neat.
Here's the book.
Here's the jacket.
You can't even tell that it's a jacket.
I know I'd like to find it myself.
It'll turn up.
Well, it's with my other, maybe in the other room.
Yeah.
Take a look on this.
Don't forget to put your dime book back.
This place is enormous.
Yeah.
It's all over the place.
This is more great though, isn't it?
This is a very funny story.
This is the only Seminar title that's on his form.
I don't know about thousands of books or how many hundreds of books that Seminar wrote.
I used to deal with Seminar when I was at Harcourt.
He just died, didn't he?
Yeah, a couple of years ago.
Maybe more recently than that, I think.
You know what?
The light is after me.
Where is the light?
I don't know.
This came up in an auction lot at one of Sotheby's sales.
This with all the first, a hundred other Simenon titles, usually the first edition in English of most of his May Gray novels.
And I bought the whole lot for what seemed to me a very reasonable amount of money for all of those books.
And I got this first edition of the only Queen's Quarm title of Simenon.
And I thought, well, gee, you know, I wonder if he remembers me.
Maybe I'll ask him to unscribe it.
So I called, I wrote Helen Wolfe, who was his,
publisher at Harcourt, you know, Helen Woolf, had a co-publishing venture with their own imprint.
And Helen Woolf was retired up in New Hampshire, and she said, sure, she remembered me, and she'd write to Simenon to see if it was okay if I wrote him.
So I wrote him a letter, and because she said, fine, go ahead, I wrote him a letter, he wrote back and said, yes, by all means, send the book.
So I wrapped it up very carefully.
We even got Swiss stamps for the right amount of posters, so the man had to do nothing.
You know, put tape in the box.
That's the way you do it, yeah.
But I told him to inscribe it to Dan.
Oh, look, I can see the inscription.
Inscribe it to Dan.
But I'm the one who is buying the book, you understand.
And I said, please inscribe it to Dan.
Here's what he writes.
So it's a very effusive inscription.
I mean, it was...
ebullient homage to the author.
Yeah.
Of course.
And it's very nice.
I mean, the inscription is Well, what he did was Are you miffed?
No.
To make a long story short, he has very good taste.
He remembered what Porcelain looked like, let me tell you.
Well, he was known to be a bit of a woman, I think.
Right.
Oh, really?
You couldn't tell from the inscription, right?
But I do love Simenon, just the same.
And these are other Simenons.
And inscribed, inscribed Simenons are the utmost rarity.
Really, because he doesn't do them?
He never did them.
These are wonderful.
Jack Kramer loves you.
For their condition.
These, the condition of these books is completely unbelievable.
Oh, boy.
I mean, this is just like... No, it's a K copy?
Yeah, yeah, both K copies.
So that means it came from Lou.
Yeah, this is all Lou Feldman, by the way.
I'll show you books that came from Lou Feldman.
Anything with a K book plate meant that Lou Feldman.
It was his book?
No, he sold it.
But he put his book plate in there?
No, he put this collection together called Mr. and Mrs. K. I'm sorry, okay.
But look at the quality of these books.
Isn't that beautiful?
But there's nothing wrong with that, is there?
This one.
There's another one from Lou.
This is one of the scarcest-known pieces of detective fiction, written under a pseudonym.
This is really Richard Austin Freeman, the same guy.
I think the pseudonym is Clifford Ashton.
A-S-H-R-E-O-W-M.
This is one of the rarest pieces.
There's probably 15 known copies.
Again, more from Lou.
And here's a postcard that tells you this is the guy who discovered
Clifford Ashdown was a student in this particular guy, Percival Stone.
And so this is a card that is laid in describing what the student is.
If you want to see condition again, always condition.
Condition is everything.
Here's another one of Lou's books.
This is one of the greatest books I own for its rarity and conditioning.
This is The Red Thumb Mark of Clark Austin Freeman and the original Glass Seed.
That's the condition of the book, 1908.
These books are, really, I'm telling you, I'm not exaggerating.
They're virtually unheard of.
And they're really unheard of because nobody's ever seen them.
How do you make sense?
Is this how you enjoy the course?
I'm dying of starvation.
It's one of the nine.
Okay, we're going.
I'll stop here.
Okay.
To me, this is what I love.
I could look at these books all day.
and I enjoy them over and over again.
You can't read them, though, obviously.
No, but I've read the stories.
Everything in English I have read.
I've read all of these stories.
He was a great writer.
He was what we call a procedural writer.
In other words, he'd go do his research, just like you're doing.
What's all that stuff in itself?
That's Priscilla's.
That's all French.
And that's really part of Priscilla's English story.
Okay.
These are all from Lou.
This is the guy who wrote The Phantom of the Opera, Gaston La Rue.
Oh, that's great.
And these are all original materials in French, in beautiful condition, the same as the seminaries.
I can shut this guy off, right?
This collection would be complete without these.
And I get it.
I see a Victor red label.
That's Conan Doyle.
recorded, the only known recordings of Doyle.
With the original jackets.
Don't touch the grooves now, just be very careful.
And what does he think about?
About his life and Sherlock Holmes.
Now what you should do is record it on tape and then never put a needle on it again.
These are William Gillette recordings.
This is of William Gillette.
So the two of them together, both
You know what, you should take this to a pro with a really very delicate, I'm just asking this to take them for you.
So you can just listen to them.
Have you heard, have you listened to them?
No.
Well, let's see.
Yes, and he's afraid to listen to them.
Now tell me what that slipper is once for.
This is where Sherlock Holmes kept his tobacco, in a Persian slipper.
You know, Texas had the socks he wore when he died.
Did you know that?
No.
They do.
Yeah, that's one of the big things.
I'll show you.
It's like they got it from Newfoundland.
I'm sorry, from Texas, Newfoundland.
Right here.
The BBC spooked them for that, in a matter of fact.
See this?
Oh, yeah, that's great.
This doll was made in 1899, December of 1899.
That's a Sherlock Holmes doll.
This is the costumer for William Gillette in his first performance made that doll.
That's much better than this doll.
And a lady from Connecticut called up Kenny Gloss and said she had this for sale.
She was the maid to Faith Baldwin, the writer, who was the mistress of William Gillette.
So it was handed down to her when Faith Baldwin died.
She didn't know what to do with it.
And Kenny, thanks to him, called me up immediately.
You've got to have the network.
And I bought this from that woman.
The Jaguar, what's that?
Cheetah.
That's Dan's tradition.
That's my position in the speckled band.
Dan is the cheetah of the speckled band.
Rimesby Roilock, the villain of the speckled band, had a cheetah and a baboon rooming in town.
Please, please.
Yeah, don't get me started.
So far we've been talking about books, but don't get into charge.
This is more than you want to know.
No, it's not.
You should be surprised.